When deciding whether to use an A/B test,
there are important benefits and drawbacks to keep in mind.
A major benefit is that A/B tests need fewer users than
multivariate tests to get statistically significant results from a small effect size.
When working on an experiment with a small number of users,
if we have to split the users into many groups,
we won't have very many users per group.
When there aren't very many users in a test group,
it is hard to prove that a difference among
the test and control is statistically significant.
Therefore, if you have a small number of users,
it is best to use an A/B test.
Since an A/B test only creates two different cases to test,
it requires fewer users than an experiment that needs
enough users to fill multiple test groups.
However, there are drawbacks to A/B tests,
the most obvious of which is that in a proper A/B test,
you can only test one change at a time,
and you also don't have the ability to see how
different changes interact together in influencing user experience.
When deciding whether to use a multivariate test,
there are important benefits and drawbacks to keep in mind.
Benefits of multivariate tests include that,
the tests allow you to test many different variations at once,
and the test can show you how different changes work
together so that you can find the most effective combination of changes.
However, multivariate testing has drawbacks.
As we mentioned before,
we need enough users in each group to show statistical significance.
If an effect size is small,
as many experimental effects may be.
This means a large number of users must be recruited to be able to show
statistical significance if there are many variations or changes to be tested,
since you'll need enough users to fill each test group.
Additionally, as we saw in the visual example,
multivariate test quickly lead to a great number of test states.
Running large number of tests,
including sorting users randomly into many variations,
can be difficult for this and the above reason,
many companies that do a large amount of
multivariate testing either build a special testing framework
or use an open source or commercial testing product that
makes a sorting of users into different test conditions easier.
Whether an A/B or multivariate test is used,
product managers gain insight from experiments as to
whether their proposed changes will have the hypothesized effect.
This makes experiments an important tool and the product manager toolkit